Que1.What is Flask and what are its main features?
Ans: Flask is  a python framework. It is also called as micro web framework.
Features of flask
1.It does not required any tools or libraries
2.It is fast as compared to Django'
3.It is light weight
4.Their is no abstraction layer in flask


Que 2.How do you install Flask?
Ans : first activate the virtual environment
we can install flask by the command in command line pip install flask in a particular directory where we want  to install flask 


Que 3.What are some advantages of using Flask for web development?
Ans:1.Flask is used to create a light weight web application and it is also easy to learn
    2.It is flexible means developer can use their on tools and libraries 
    3.Flask is scalable and can used to build web application that can handle large  number of users and request
    4.Flask has large community of developers  to contribute in frame work and provide support to users
    5. Flask has many tools and libraries  for build and deploy  web application

Que 4.Explain the concept of routing in Flask.
Ans: Routing is the process of mapping URLs to specific function within web application
     In flask  , a route is defined @app.route() decorator

Que 5.How do you create a basic Flask application?
Ans: first  activate virtual environment
     then install flask by using pip install flask
     the  write the  code as follows
     from flask import Flask  
     app = Flask(__name__) 
     @app.route('/') 
     def home():  
    	return "hello";  
  
    if __name__ =='__main__':  
     app.run(debug = True)  



Que 6.What is the purpose of the route() decorator in Flask?

Ans:The route() decorator in Flask is used to bind a function to a URL.
    The route() decorator can also be used to specify HTTP methods.


Que 7.How do you handle HTTP methods like GET and POST in Flask?
Ans:To handle HTTP methods like GET and POST in Flask, you can use the methods argument of the route() decorator. 
This argument takes a list of HTTP methods that the route should handle. For example, the following route will handle both GET and POST requests.

Que 8.What is a Flask blueprint and how is it used?
Ans:A Flask blueprint is a way to organize a Flask application's code by grouping related views, templates, and other elements. 
Blueprints can help simplify large applications and make them more manageable.Blueprints can be registered on an application at a URL prefix and/or subdomain.

Que 9.How do you render templates in Flask?
Ans:To render templates in Flask, you can use the render_template() helper function. This function serves an HTML template as the response.we use jinja 2 for rendering the template



Que 10.What is Jinja2 and how does Flask use it for template rendering?
Ans:Jinja2 is a modern and powerful template engine for Python. 
It is used by Flask to render templates. J
jinja2 templates are HTML files that contain special syntax that allows to insert dynamic content into the page.
To use Jinja2 templates in Flask first need to create a templates directory in  project.
 This is where  store  Jinja2 templates.
Next need to configure Flask to use Jinja2.  
Can do this by adding the following code to your Flask app's configuration file
TEMPLATES_AUTO_RELOAD = True
This will tell Flask to automatically reload your Jinja2 templates when they change.
Finally,  can render a Jinja2 template by calling the render_template() function. 
This function takes the name of the template file as its first argument. 
